# Extending Computational Cytometry Pipeline to Diagnose Primary Immunodeficiencies

The primary immunodeficiency diseases (PIDs) include many genetic disorders that affect different components of the innate and adaptive responses. The number of distinct genetic PIDs has increased exponentially with improved methods of detection and advanced laboratory methodology. Patients with PIDs have an increased susceptibility to infectious diseases and non-infectious complications including allergies, malignancies and autoimmune diseases (ADs). PIDs are characterized by heterogeneous clinical presentations, complex pathophysiology and multifactorial etiology.
Patients with primary immunodeficiencies (PID) have a defect in one or multiple elements of their immune system and show a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations. This heterogeneity often complicates a fast diagnosis which is necessary for a timely treatment and the prevention of potential life-threatening diseases. To cope with these issues, flow cytometry functions as an important tool in the diagnostic and prognostic work-up of PID. However, data analysis of cytometry data remains challenging.
To be able to immunophenotypically distinguish and diagnose PID subtypes, a computational pipeline on historical data from the Ghent University Hospital was built. Although the existing pipeline seems to classify the subtypes well, the limitation of using data from one research centre highlights the need for improvement and generalization in order to be used in other hospitals. The aim of this project is to improve the already existing pipeline, focusing on trying different normalization techniques over the available datasets and supervised approach. Improving and validating the model over datasets originated from different hospitals may give valuable insights on the model usage in different clinical settings.
